[Komm][Docs] D2IQ-74802: Created new folder and file for cluster attachment requirements for BMW (#3540)
mesosphere/dcos-docs-site: pages/dkp/kommander/1.4/clusters/attach-cluster/requirements-for-attaching/index.md

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Requirements for Attaching an Existing Cluster to Kommander
title: Requirements for Attaching an Existing Cluster to Kommander

> menuWeight: 3

Author: Agree and bumped to position 1.

excerpt: Requirements for attaching an existing cluster to Kommander
beta: true
---

> ## Basic requirements

Reviewer: Say explicitly we don't support K3s.

Author: Added a formal Note box for this info.

> You can attach existing clusters to Kommander whether or not those clusters have networking restrictions.

Reviewer 2: 'Networking restrictions' needs some elaboration here, it makes no sense if you haven't read those other pages about what that means.   Also, one of the phrases below should be 'hoisted up' to this section as it applies to all clusters.

```suggestion
In order to attach an existing cluster to Kommander, the Kommander management cluster must be able to reach the services and the api-server of the target cluster.

You can attach existing clusters to Kommander whether or not those clusters have networking restrictions.  Networking restrictions refers to clusters that are located in a DMZ, behind a proxy server or a firewall, or that have additional requirements for access.  
```

Maybe we should also include links to the networking restrictions pages?

Reviewer 3: do you mean this @cneth - 
/dkp/kommander/1.4/clusters/attach-cluster/cluster-with-networking-restrictions/

Author: Implemented as noted above, minus the lead-in "In order to attach...," and replaced with just "To attach...."

> For attaching existing clusters without networking restrictions, the requirements depend on the Kommander 1.X version that you plan to use. The supported Kubernetes versions are between version 1.16.x and 1.20.x with a maximum version of 1.20.5. To attach an existing cluster, the Kommander management cluster must be able to reach the services and the api-server of the target cluster.

Reviewer 2: This needs elaboration, it is not at all clear what the connection between 'which Kommander 1.X version' I am using and the Kubernetes version. 

Also, the last clause, i.e.: "the Kommander management cluster must be able to reach the services and the api-server of the target cluster." really has nothing to do with the rest of this paragraph - this is a general requirement, not specific to 'existing clusters without networking restrictions'.

```suggestion
For attaching existing clusters without networking restrictions, the requirements depend which Kommander 1.X version you are using. Each version of Kommander supports a specific range of Kubernetes versions; you must ensure that the target cluster is running a compatible version.

For example, Kommander 1.3 supports Kubernetes versions between 1.17.0 and 1.19.x, so any cluster you wish to attach using Kommander 1.3 must be running a version between these versions." 
```

Reviewer 3: Do we need to say which "Kommander 1.x version" - or can we just say "depends on which Kommander version"? This seems pretty refined, when it doesn't need to be for this sentence in my opinion. The specific versions show up later.

Author: Fixed as noted.

> For attaching clusters _with_ networking restrictions, the lowest Kubernetes version should be less than or equal to version 1.19.x. For these types of clusters, the Kommander cluster uses a tunnel to access the clusters you plan to attach. Any managed service you want to expose in the Kommander cluster requires the creation of a reverse proxy, or the use of HTTPS_PROXY environment variables that point to the Kommander tunnel proxy server.

Reviewer 2: We need to use 'must' here, not 'should', when discussing requirements.  'Should' implies it might work, which is weasel wordy...  

Also, do we really mean 'less than 1.19.x'? Don't we mean 'greater than'?  This whole 'networking restrictions' feature is part of Kommander 1.4 which is released with Konvoy 1.8, which has a default Kubernetes version of 1.20.x, so it seems strange to me that we would say "less than 1.19.x" here.  Please confirm with engineering, but I think this should read:

```suggestion
For attaching clusters _with_ networking restrictions, the Kubernetes version of the cluster you wish to attach must be greater than or equal to version 1.19.x. For these types of clusters, the Kommander cluster uses a tunnel to access the clusters you plan to attach. Any managed service you want to expose in the Kommander cluster requires the creation of a reverse proxy, or the use of HTTPS_PROXY environment variables that point to the Kommander tunnel proxy server.
```

Reviewer 3: Committing this - getting this in now.

Author: Resolved as noted.

> For attaching clusters _with_ networking restrictions, the lowest Kubernetes version should be less than or equal to version 1.19.x. For these types of clusters, the Kommander cluster uses a tunnel to access the clusters you plan to attach. Any managed service you want to expose in the Kommander cluster requires the creation of a reverse proxy, or the use of HTTPS_PROXY environment variables that point to the Kommander tunnel proxy server.

Author: I will fix this.

> When working with clusters that have networking restrictions, you need to run some YAML manifests on the existing cluster, so that Kommander can collect a resulting `kubeconfig` file used to establish the tunnel.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When working with clusters that have networking restrictions, you will need to apply some additional YAML manifests on the existing cluster, so that Kommander can collect a resulting `kubeconfig` file used to establish the tunnel.
```

Reviewer 3: We could link to here: 
/dkp/kommander/1.4/clusters/tunnel-cli/
or specifically - this starts the instructions about getting that manifest.yaml file here: 
/dkp/kommander/1.4/clusters/tunnel-cli/#connecting-a-remote-cluster

Author: I am indeed linking to that page in this area, and will be letting Jon G know that he _may_ be missing a couple of steps.

### Projects and Workspaces

> Before you attach clusters, you need to create one or more Projects and Workspaces. [Projects][projects] allow you to define one or more clusters as a group to which Kommander pushes a common configuration. [Workspaces][workspaces] give you a logical way to represent your teams and specific configurations. Grouping your existing clusters in Kommander projects and workspaces makes managing their plaform services and resources easier and supports monitoring and logging.

Reviewer 3: We don't really have to create a project first. You do need a workspace though (even though here is a default workspace already created upon Kommander deployment, we can say that they need one, because it's true. And, projects reside within workspaces, so I just added that in there.

```suggestion
Before you attach clusters, you need to create one or more Workspaces, and we encourage creating Projects within your Workspaces. [Workspaces][workspaces] give you a logical way to represent your teams and specific configurations. [Projects][projects] allow you to define one or more clusters as a group in a Workspace to which Kommander pushes a common configuration. Grouping your existing clusters in Kommander projects and workspaces make managing their platform services and resources easier and supports monitoring and logging.
```

Author: Order of sentences changed as noted. In the last sentence, the verb does need to be plural. The words "projects and workspaces" are the direct object of the prepositional phrase, not the subject of the sentence.

### Platform service requirements

> In addition to the basic cluster requirements, the combination of platform services that Kommander will manage on those clusters is very important. The [specific set of platform services][platform_service_requirements] you want to use makes a big difference in the requirements for the cluster nodes and their resources (CPU, memory, and storage).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In addition to the basic cluster requirements, the combination of platform services that Kommander will manage on those clusters will have an impact on the total cluster requirements. The [specific set of platform services][platform_service_requirements] you want to use will make a difference in the requirements for the cluster nodes and their resources (CPU, memory, and storage).
```

Author: Changes above incorporated with wording changes to shorten the sentence length, and reduce the number of consecutive phrases and prepositional phrases for clarity.

> The default platform services that Kommander provides include Prometheus, Kubecost, Traefik, and cert-manager.

Reviewer 3: @gracedo - because these are the ones that come as gimmes for attached clusters - are these classified as Addons, or are the Platform Services?

Reviewer 4: Platform Services! In kommander, we refer to the federated addons as platform services :)

## Attaching existing AWS and EKS clusters

Attaching an existing, Amazon-provisioned cluster requires that the cluster be fully-configured and running. The suggested default cluster confguration includes a control plane pool containing three (3) m5.xlarge nodes and a worker pool containing four (4) m5.2xlarge nodes.

Consider the additional resource requirements for running the platform services you want Kommander to manage, and ensure that your existing clusters comply.

To attach an existing EKS cluster, refer to the specific information in [Attach Amazon EKS Cluster to Kommander][attach_eks_cluster].

## Attaching existing Azure clusters

> Attaching an existing, Azure-provisioned cluster requires that the cluster be fully-configured and running. The suggested default cluster configuration includes a control plane pool containing three (3) Standard_DS3_v2 nodes and a worker pool containing six (6) Standard_DS3_v2 nodes.

Author: I will change this as noted.

> Attaching an existing, Azure-provisioned cluster requires that the cluster be fully-configured and running. The suggested default cluster configuration includes a control plane pool containing three (3) Standard_DS3_v2 nodes and a worker pool containing six (6) Standard_DS3_v2 nodes.

Author: Since I link to the Azure topic from this one, I decided to go ahead and fix the errant info there as part of this ticket.

Consider the additional resource requirements for running the platform services you want Kommander to manage, and ensure that your existing clusters comply.

> [attach_eks_cluster]: /dkp/kommander/latest/clusters/attach-cluster/attach-eks-cluster/

Reviewer 3: I'm of two minds on /latest/ but I feel like we should version the docs, because if you're in the beta area, it'll push you down to the previous version (which may or may not have the same link description), or if you're at a lower version, it'll take you to the newest, which may not match the functionality that we now have, and it does seem like the different functionalities are diverging greater and greater. So, I'm going to suggest we actually version these, but I don't feel too strongly about it. Just a little bit: 

```suggestion
[attach_eks_cluster]: /dkp/kommander/1.4/clusters/attach-cluster/attach-eks-cluster/
```

Author: Changed as noted.

> [projects]: /dkp/kommander/latest/projects

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[projects]: /dkp/kommander/1.4/projects
```

Author: Changed as noted.

> [workspaces]: /dkp/kommander/latest/workspaces

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[workspaces]: /dkp/kommander/1.4/workspaces
```

Author: Changed as noted.

> [platform_service_requirements]: /dkp/kommander/latest/platform-service-requirements

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[platform_service_requirements]: /dkp/kommander/1.4/platform-service-requirements
```

Author: Changed as noted.

---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: Requirements for Attaching an Existing Cluster to Kommander
title: Requirements for Attaching an Existing Cluster to Kommander
menuWeight: 3
excerpt: Requirements for attaching an existing cluster to Kommander
beta: true
---

## Basic requirements

To attach an existing cluster to Kommander, the Kommander management cluster must be able to reach the services and the api-server of the target cluster.

You can attach existing clusters with or without networking restrictions to Kommander. These networking restrictions refer to clusters that are located in a DMZ, behind a proxy server or a firewall, or that have additional requirements for access.

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>Kommander does not support attachment of K3s clusters.</p>

> For [attaching existing clusters _without_ networking restrictions][attach_without_network_restrictions], the requirements depend on which Kommander 1.X version you are using. Each version of Kommander supports a specific range of Kubernetes versions. You must ensure that the target cluster is running a compatible version.

Reviewer 3: I think we can just get rid of this `1.x` business here. It just matters on the version.

```suggestion
For [attaching existing clusters _without_ networking restrictions][attach_without_network_restrictions], the requirements depend on which Kommander version you are using. Each version of Kommander supports a specific range of Kubernetes versions. You must ensure that the target cluster is running a compatible version.
```

Author: Resolved as noted in my branch.

For example, Kommander 1.3 supports Kubernetes versions between 1.17.0 and 1.19.x. Any cluster you want to attach using Kommander 1.3 must be running a Kubernetes version in that range

For [attaching clusters _with_ networking restrictions][attach_with_network_restrictions], the Kubernetes version of the cluster you want to attach must be greater than or equal to version 1.19.x. For these types of clusters, the Kommander cluster uses a tunnel to access the clusters you plan to attach. Any managed service you want to expose in the Kommander cluster requires the creation of a reverse proxy, or the use of HTTPS_PROXY environment variables that point to the Kommander tunnel proxy server.

> When working with clusters that have networking restrictions, you will need to apply some YAML manifests on the existing cluster, so that Kommander can collect a resulting `kubeconfig` file used to establish the tunnel. When you use the Kommander UI, this is handled for you. If you choose to use the manual [CLI attachment process][manual_cli_attachment], you will apply those manifests as part of the larger procedure.

Reviewer 3: Do we need `larger` here? I mean, even though it is a more laborious process, should we just say procedure? I don't know the style here.

```suggestion
When working with clusters that have networking restrictions, you will need to apply some YAML manifests on the existing cluster, so that Kommander can collect a resulting `kubeconfig` file used to establish the tunnel. When you use the Kommander UI, this is handled for you. If you choose to use the manual [CLI attachment process][manual_cli_attachment], you will apply those manifests as part of the procedure.
```

Author: Resolved as noted in my branch.
